Oh Hawaii what can be better than
sailing off on a yacht into the blue
waters of the ocean salty wind in your
face waves rocking the deck under your
feet me vomiting over the rail but wait
what's that
uh-oh it's a storm coming don't panic
though
here are some pro tips for you to get
out of it in one piece one prepare in
advance going out into the open sea
without proper gear is asking for
trouble that's why your fight with the
elements begins even before you set sail
make sure you have enough safety vest
for everyone on board that's an absolute
must it will also help to have an
emergency radio beacon and some
additional fasteners to hold every
movable object if something flies it can
not only be lost at sea but also injure
someone and you don't want any more
trouble than you're already in to read
the signs no parking no not that one
weather conditions both above and
beneath you will clearly warn you of
what to expect straight ahead learn to
read the wind the clouds and the
currents and always keep an eye on the
barometer changes in air pressure are a
telltale sign there's something nasty
coming your way keeping track of all of
these things just might let you escape
the store
three head for the shore if all else
fails and you see the storm approaching
try to find the nearest land and sail
there as fast as you can it's always
best if there's a port nearby so that
you can make the safest landing possible
but if there's not any flat strip of
shore will do if you're already in the
storm however it might be safer to stay
in the open
rather than risk crashing your boat in
high wind and if that happens for stay
in one place the slower you go in the
storm the easier it is to steer but the
speed heavily depends on the weight of
your boat the severity of the wind and
waves and how well-prepared you are if
you have enough ballast on your boat
that's positioned equally above and
below decks you'll have lower chances of
being tossed in the wind like a toy and
if you have a sea anchor use it it will
help stabilize your boat and you'll have
much more control of the situation
without the anchor though even a bucket
on a line should help five remove wind
from the equation when is your worst
enemy during a storm it will hit you
hard and waves created by it will pack a
hefty punch to
[Music]
anyway that's why you should avoid as
much wind as you can if you have a
sailboat remove all the sails as soon as
you realize you can't escape the storm
just imagine one of those huge pieces of
cloth unfolding and catching the
monstrous winds around you at best
you'll lose your sail at worst your
entire boat
six cut the waves when you're in control
the sales have been folded and the sea
anchor has been deployed position your
boat at fifteen degrees to the
approaching waves and win
this will make her nose cut them making
them weaker if you go straight at the
wind you might get a rogue wave lashing
out from the front side hits are even
more dangerous because the area of a hit
is bigger and you risk scooping water
and even capsizing seven stay covered
now it might seem obvious but it's still
worth mentioning that your best chances
lie in keeping out of the worst of it
until everyone on board to hide in the
cabin or inside the holes if there are
any however good you might be at
controlling your boat there's always a
chance that a wave will hit her hard
enough to throw anyone standing on the
deck eight keep everything strapped I
said it a bit earlier but I can't stress
it enough any object that can be moved
both on the deck and in the cabinet
holds should be fastened and secured
ideally you should remove anything that
can cause harm when tossed by the wind
and waves but if that's impossible just
make sure it won't budge when the
weather strikes hard fastening your
stuff will help you save it and avoid
risk to your passengers 9 make yourself
visible during a storm your line of
sight reduces alive because of all of
the rain and darkness
the storm clouds and even if your boat
is small and you've done everything
right until this point there's always a
chance that someone nearby hasn't
watched this video and is panicking for
all you know they could be racing across
the waves just a few dozen feet from you
and neither of you will see the
collision coming so make sure you're as
visible as possible turn on the lights
and sound your horn at regular intervals
this will let anyone around you know
that you're there and you'll avoid
bumping into each other 10 send out a
distress call if you realize that things
are not going well for you turn on your
radio transmitter and send out a call
for help using your rocket flare during
a storm isn't a good idea as it won't be
seen so radio is your best shot when
someone has picked up your signal tell
them your coordinates and stay put if
you sail away from the spot
finding you will be no easy task 11 be
secure now that you're in real trouble
you should wait for help and make sure
everyone on board is safe first don't
let yourself or anyone else panic as in
all critical situations panic will only
make things worse
calm down your passengers and instruct
them to secure themselves somewhere so
that they don't fall and get hurt you
and your crew if you have it should at
this time try to control the boat and
prolong the time it stays afloat the
longer you keep it that way the better
your chances of getting rescued but in
the worst case scenario when you have to
abandon boat then 12 stay afloat and
together so your boat has capsized and
you had to jump into the water to save
your life first make sure that everyone
has done the same and do the head count
needless to say all of you should have
been wearing your lifejacket since the
storm had come if someone wasn't careful
enough they'll help them find a floating
object and let them cling to it if the
boat is still afloat the best course is
to swim back and climb onto a
staying in the water can cause
hypothermia or loss of body heat which
is very dangerous if the boat is sunk
then float on the water and don't tread
it when treading you spend much-needed
energy more quickly so save your breath
literally 13 wait for help well this is
quite self-explanatory but don't do
anything rash calm yourself down and
help the others make sure everyone has
something to hold on to while floating
in the water
and wait if the storm hasn't subsided
yet the weight can be terrified but
really you have nothing else to do of
course you should also attract as much
attention to yourself as you can so send
up distress calls if you can and use
other ways to anything helps 14 recount
your losses but let's get back a little
bit and imagine capsizing never happened
good thing we can do it like this anyway
you've managed to survive the storm with
your boat in one piece the sky is
clearing and the worst is over but it's
not yet time to yell hooray and get all
jolly the thing is your boat might be
damaged from all the tossing and beating
so make sure you find out if anything's
wrong with it ASAP first check the hull
for any holes and see if the bilge pumps
are working alright and drain holes are
really draining water
if something's indeed wrong be sure to
do the necessary repairs immediately you
never know when another storm is going
to occur
fifteen avoid further damage when you're
done repairing the boat and helping your
passengers if needed go to the shore but
do it carefully after a heavy rain
especially if there's a river nearby
debris may float in the water it
sometimes travels at rather high speeds
dragged by currents but even static
objects in the water can be a threat to
your boat if you suddenly come across a
floating law for example it just might
damage the hull or even make a hole in
it so exercise caution 16 don't stay on
the water finally after surviving a
severe storm don't assume you're ready
to continue the voyage you'll probably
be exhausted after such an ordeal and
you'll need rest before going further
make sure this rest is not on the water
though like I said you can't know when
the next storm will come and let's be
honest your chances of surviving another
one while tired and on a possibly
damaged boat are slim so head for the
nearest Harbor go ashore and only go
back to the sea when you're thoroughly
rested by the way
Congrats you've bested the elements and
can now call yourself a salty sea dog
Iyer hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click on the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life